spigit - 

Anonymous payment for online or offline purchases. by Uttam C Pawar on 
04/17/2013 05:30 PM CDT

Other
Describe Your Idea

Proposed system would enable secure and private transaction for online purchases 
either with your credit cards, debit cards or even a checking account without 
carrying any plastics or checkbook. This will also enable purchasing without 
giving out any personal information of any sort. Any time user wants to do any 
financial transaction he/she creates a new one using his/her mobile device. 
Google wallet is convenient and already solves part of the problem but you need 
to use Google services and abide by its terms. Google and other ecosystems are 
convenient but they are becoming new walled gardens. This could be another tool 
to avoid credit card frauds especially online transaction frauds.
Value Proposition

 Benefits to End Users:
- End user doesn’t need to carry or keep track of plastics or check books.
- Protect user’s personal information from proliferating across the globe.
 - We strongly believe that the retailers don’t need (and store) customers 
personal information to complete the transaction. Retailers can't misuse user 
data (like sharing or selling it to others as there is nothing to misuse).
- Convenient way of fastest money transfer to their close friends or family 
members in urgent need. Imagine a friend is travelling in New York City and 
he/she is in dire need of immediate money because he/she has lost all the 
belongings. In this scenario a Sender creates a virtual-transaction with all the 
details including a secret code (similar to a debit card pin #) and gives this 
information (a string) to the receiver over the phone who in turn uses it at ATM 
machine (or special kiosks at 7Elevan or 24-hr stores) to cash in.       
- It's like a Cash transaction in Digital world.
 
Benefits to the “Providers” (Banks, Credit Card companies or other financial 
institutions):
- No need to design, manufacture and distribute millions of credit, debit cards 
or checks year after year, saving paper and plastic. 
 - They don't need to keep track of lost/stolen cards,
 -  May need to worry less about loss of millions of dollars to financial fraud 
due to lost/stolen cards.  The rapid growth of credit card use on the internet 
has made database security lapses particularly costly. Whenever it happens 
millions of accounts have been compromised at a time. Today’s fraud detection 
systems are designed to prevent a very small percent of all transactions 
processed which still translates into billions of dollars in losses (Business 
Applications of Neural Networks by Bill Edisbury).         
 
Benefits to the Retailers:
 - They can be protected from the use of fraudulent credit cards. In year 2009 
BestBuy Inc., lost $100 million worth of goods to a gang of hackers/thieves who 
used stolen credit card information to place the orders online.
 - Retailer’s benefit tremendously by getting personal information of their 
customer which they can use for targeted advertising. With the proposed system, 
users personal information is protected. To mitigate this issue, we are 
suggesting another piece of information which can be as anonymous as possible 
like an email address could be used to advertise the products to individual 
customer. Email addresses can also be used to send out the receipts.
Your Solution

- In the proposed system, both retailer and Provider needs to sign-up with 
‘Intel Service’. This is like a router service which receives a 
virtual-transaction from the participating retailer and forwards it to the 
correct participating provider along with retailer information in encrypted 
form. Rest of the transaction completes as usual.
-  For end user, there will be application (mobile or web) with common interface 
to all "Providers". User inputs a name for a transaction (optional), assign 
expiration date (optional), amount, and a pin code (optional and can be 
different every time if needed). The input process can be automated with few 
rules to make it more convenient.
-  Then user submits to a "Provider" of choice at the time, who in turn 
generates an encrypted string or a number with a bar code (can simply be scanned 
at the brick-and-mortar store).
- User can use this encrypted token/number at online merchant (for e.g. amazon), 
which internally could decrypt enough information to know about "Provider". This 
gets sent to a Provider who can authenticate, decrypt and complete the 
transaction marking it as "complete" in the system.
- These transactions will have default expiration date/time so that transaction 
becomes obsolete after validity period or use.- Every provider can have their 
own encrypt/decrypt technology. This gives user a freedom and improves mobile 
banking experience.  "Providers" will certainly need to use Intel's best and 
fast server technology with dedicated encryption/decryption circuitry to provide 
faster service.
 
Part of a Project

No
Working Prototype

No
Potential Owner

Software and Services Group
Commitment to Ownership

Yes
Market Opportunity

1) TAM (Total available market): From my market research and reports I have 
read, I found out that the total number of mobile payment users will reach 448 
million users by 2016 from 212.2 million in 2012, according to Gartner, Inc. 
This presents huge opportunity in the mobile payment space. The number of U.S. 
digital shoppers is expected to grow from 137 million in 2010 to 175 million in 
2016, according to eMarketer estimates (www.statista.com)
The US mobile payment market is expected to reach 
(http://techcrunch.com/2013/01/16/forrester-u-s-mobile-payments-market-predicted-to-reach-90b-by-2017-up-from-12-8b-in-2012/) 
90 Billion by 2017.
2) SAM (Serviceable Available Market): In this space PayPal has the highest 
market share (in terms of customer who uses PayPal solution) of around 100 
million customers. Other customers are being served by Google using NFC 
technology along with individual solutions by each major credit card companies. 
This technology could be integrated with retailers/providers using NFC based 
solution for payment processing. 
3) SOM(Serviceable Obtainable Market): My strategy is to work with Major bank(s) 
or a Credit Card companies to enable this idea, and develop an application 
interface for retailer to use this system (as payment or complete POS system). 
After going to market I'm expecting signup of at least 1% of 100 million of 
PayPal's customer or new customers from uBid.com or similar auction sites, of 
around 1 million customers to start using this system in the first year. In this 
case I'm assuming 10 million transactions a month with 0.5% charge per 
transaction would generate approx. $600,000 by first year. This is very 
realistic and reachable target by end of first year of deployment. With growth 
rate (new customers and transactions) of 10% in next 2 years, my revenue will be 
$12M by year 3. Additional revenue will be generated by anonymous data analysis 
services to the retail sector and urgent money transfer services from a users 
bank account via ATM or 24-Hrs store network like 7-Elevan.
Competitive Landscape

Mobile payments market is growing very fast with many new startups and also 
products from incumbents like Paypal, and Intuit. PayPal’s “Here” is a service 
is similar to SquareUp with better features. There are other companies like 
Braintree that are providing encrypted tokens to make payments. There is 
significant traction for PayPal services in the market due to brand recognition. 
“SquareUp”, “SumUp”, “iZettle”, “Payleven” and other companies are providing 
mainly card readers (dongle based) for the individual sellers or small 
businesses to carry out mobile payments with customers. They charge 2-3 % of the 
transaction as a fee. PayPal’s “Here” is an App based but still charges the same 
fee. We are charging a small fee for letting our customers use the service and 
they also get the benefit of anonymous transaction.
Amazon is also working on a patent for anonymous transaction.  
Our sustainable advantage is being able to protect all the entities i.e. banks, 
consumers from fraud due to loss of credit cards or credit card info while 
providing banks with more revenue thru small businesses who can use our service 
with much lesser overhead. We have the added benefit of collecting data (though 
anonymous) that is location based that has invaluable to marketers. Encrypted 
card readers can be easily hacked since they are used repeatedly with same 
encryption. Our encryption system can use different encryption technologies and 
can be dynamically changed by providers making it difficult to hack into the 
private data.
Go To Market Model and Value Chain

We will partner with credit card processing getaways and banks to enable 
processing credit card, debit card and check transactions. We will target online 
retailers and small businesses in local geography as our first customers. We 
will market to them directly and through small business associations. We will 
also target online 'Apps' seller like individual opensource software developers 
and non-profit organizations by developing a generic browser plugin to make 
accessible this new payment system.
Business Model

Our customers are small business owner or individual who currently uses service 
like PayPal. The customers will pay us a percentage of their revenue of the 
transactions. We will charge a fee to the merchants. For all successful 
transactions this will be deducted before money is transferred to their account 
thru the bank card processing gateways.
For a $100 transaction the business owner will get $99.50 minus the bank credit 
card fees if any. We will provide customer service through email and phone or 
online chat support.
We will also enable to easy but authorized money transfer services through the 
bank and their ATM network. There would be a small fee will be applied for the 
use of this service paid by the sender (this will behave like a collect phone 
call system).
Market Acceptance

Looking at the various Payment services and there are quite a few of them, 
PayPal's “Here” service and Braintree’s “token” based payment service are some 
examples where this idea has been accepted by consumers and merchants.
Risk Assessment

Our assumptions/risks are as follows,
- Support from financial institutions (Providers) is a must for this 
idea/solution to be deployed and successful. All providers are ready to change 
the workflow that currently exists for most of the transactions that use credit 
card,
- The consumers (users of this product) are increasingly adoptive of  the idea 
and ready to change their habit of using plastic cards, and
-- The continued increases of mobile devices for financial transactions.
 
Final Comments

Financial Opportunity

 I'm assuming 10 million transactions a month with 0.5% charge per transaction 
would generate approx. $600,000 by first year. With growth rate (new customers 
and transactions) of 10% in next 2 years, my revenue will be $12M by year 3. 
Additional revenue will be generated by anonymous data analysis services to the 
retail sector and urgent money transfer services from a users bank account via 
ATM or 24-Hrs store network like 7-Eleven. Software stack will be built using 
open source software saving licensing fees. I'm assuming 20% cost for the use of 
cloud infrastructure from lthe likes of Amazon, Rackspace. Tags: secure 
transactions,ecommerce,privacyCommentsComments
 
