UTTAM C. PAWAR 

3816 NW Tustin Ranch Drive 
Portland, OR 97229 

503.929.6681 uttampc@gmail.com 

PROFILE 
An accomplished Software Engineer with 12+ years’ experience in performance analysis of single and multi-
threaded applications on various platforms ensuring systems perform virtually, cost-effectively, efficiently and 
are optimally secure. Demonstrated expertise in the development and optimization of compiler technology 
and using Ruby-on-Rails web development framework in a Linux environment. Highly proficient in C, C++ 
programming and development tools with in-depth knowledge / experience in Client-Server application 
development using middleware software. 

TECHNICAL EXPERTISE 

Operating Systems Linux, DYNIX / Ptx, HP_UX, AT&T (SYSV), DG-UX OS 
Software Ruby-on-Rails, C, C++, Java, x86 (32 / 64 bit) assembly, PowerPC 
Assembly, Linux OS internals (kernel and device drivers) and 
kernel debugging, IPC, Pthreads, CVS, SVN, CMVC, Valgrind, 
development of GCC (GNU compiler collection) suite (includes, C, 
C++, Fortran compilers), Java compiler on DYNIX / Ptx, BEA 
Tuxedo, Perl, CodeAnalysts analyzer 
Parallel Programming 
Environments 
LAM, openMPI, MPICH 

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY 

Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, OR Feb 2012-till date 
Software Engineer 

Currently optimizing Android's Dalvik Virtual Machine software stack for performance along with 
CPU core management driver development in Android's Kernel software for Atom based platform. This project 
involves power and performance analysis of various workloads on 'Atom' based mobile platform. 

ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES (AMD), Portland, OR 2006 – 2011 
Member of Technical Staff 

Designed and launched internal website, Machine Reservation System, using Ruby-on-Rails technology 
that enabled fair Global usage of machine resources by team; thereby, avoided overbooking and saved 
hours in completing the task. 


Developed compiler that supported OpenCL and MS’s C++AMP standard, taking advantage of enhanced 
hardware in Fusion Platform. 
Improved PGI compiler tool chain performance 20% and Open64 compiler tool chain performance 28%, so 
far, through extensive development and performance analysis of PGI compiler technology for x86 
architecture, especially AMD processor based platforms. 
Recognized for excellence by receiving the Spotlight Award in 2008. 
Honored with the Spirit Of Success Award in 2010 (Highest Team Award @ AMD) 


International Business Machines (IBM), Beaverton, OR 2000 – 2006 

Software Engineer 

Submitted a disclosure for ‘source code browser/analyzer which improved the time it took to study new 
project source code written in C or C++ programming language 


UTTAM C. PAWAR 
PAGE TWO 

Involved extensively in effort that improved GNU tool chain performance on PowerPC architecture and 
maintenance of GLIBC, libNUMA library on PowerPC platform. Benchmarking involved analysis of SPEC 
2000 suite. 

Created and submitted patches to the open source community (Linux kernel) that enabled the kernel 
support of NUMA API on PowerPC for SLES9 release along with port of libnuma library (a user level 
library) to use for application development. 
Provided maintenance of NUMA aware OS called DYNIX / Ptx operating system, IBM JAVA VM and 
compiler (javac), Roguewave C++ library and DYNIX / Ptx compiler tool chain. 
Submitted ideas and patches, as part of Linux kernel development team, which revised the device driver 
development model and cleaned up existing device drivers providing better maintenance. 

MBNA AMERICA, Wilmington, DE 1998 – 2000 

Software Programmer Consultant 

Consulted on projects for Design and Development. 
Created complete architecture and detail design document and developed Auto Debt Management 
Automation system generating approximately $300K revenue in a year. 
Developed Settlement Automation system resulting in improved customer service/satisfaction. 
Improved customer service, trust and satisfaction through the development of the Fraud Detection system 
in Credit Card processing. 
Developed Loss Prevention Forms Automation system improving customer service. 
Created detailed design document, and developed all the required backend server processes in C++ 
language. 

AT&T, Bell Labs, Holmdel, NJ 1997 – 1998 

System Software Programmer 

Performed Development and testing of TUXEDO product (a middleware software stack). 
Designed, developed and tested Client-Server Application which successfully monitored inter-toll network 
using Tuxedo as middleware software ensuring the system that managed the switching / regulation of calls 
was operating properly. 
Supported the provisioning and maintenance of echo Cancelers system, a C++ application. 

SOFTWARE AG, Frankfurt, Germany 1996 – 1997 

Software Engineer 

Designed and developed the interpreter in 'C' for the test suite which was developed in Tcl/Tk for the new 
features supported by the "Entire Broker". "Entire broker" is middleware software developed internally at 
Software AG. 

DATA GENERAL SYSTEMS, Mumbai, India 1995 – 1996 

Software Engineer 

Developed and maintained C, Pascal and PL/1 compilers and an interpreter called BBUX on RISK m88k 
platform running DG-UX operating system. 


EDUCATION 

MS, Computer Science, Oregon Graduate Institute, Portland State University, Portland, OR 
-Parallel Programming: Advanced Parallel Programming courses 
-2 advance Database Design courses 
-Currently completing work on remaining (5) courses 

BS, Computer Engineering, University of Mumbai, India 
-Database design: Complete design/development of Relational Database 
Diploma, Computer Technology, Board of Technical Education, Mumbai 


